h1. TEXTILE

p=. *A Humane Web Text Generator*

p=. A lightweight markup language that takes (almost) plaintext and converts it into well formed HTML.



h2. Installation

The only file that is necessary for the correct operation of Textile is @classTextile.php@ from the project root directory. However, to use additional features you may need to install other files from the project tree.

For live installations only files and subdirectories from the @master@ branch should be used. _Code from other branches should not be used on live sites._



h2. Usage

You'll need to include the source file and instantiate a parser...

bc.. include "classTextile.php"; # adjust paths if needed.
$textile = new Textile();

p. Then, for input that you control, pass it to @TextileThis()@. Like so...

bc. $output = $textile->TextileThis( $trusted_input );

If you are using Textile to format user-supplied input, blog comments for instance, use a @TextileRestricted()@ call...

bc. $output = $textile->TextileRestricted( $untrusted_input );



h2. Translations 

The Textile project welcomes translations of the documentation found under the @docs\@ folder. For information on how to contribute translations please get in contact.



h2. Getting In Contact

The textile project welcomes constructive input and bug reports from users. You can contact us in several ways. 

* "Open an issue":https://github.com/netcarver/textile/issues on the repository for a feature request or bug.
* If you are on IRC, feel free to drop into *#textile* on *freenode.net* ("webchat":http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=#textile.)
* Use the generic "contact form":http://sitemonks.com/.

